ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
AND LIFE IN 2030
ONE HUNDRED YEAR STUDY ON ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE | REPORT OF THE 2015 STUDY PANEL | SEPTEMBER 2016

PREFACE
The One Hundred Year Study on
Artificial Intelligence, launched
in the fall of 2014, is a longterm investigation of the field of
Artificial Intelligence (AI) and
its influences on people, their
communities, and society. It
considers the science, engineering,
and deployment of AI-enabled
computing systems. As its core
activity, the Standing Committee
that oversees the One Hundred
Year Study forms a Study Panel
every five years to assess the
current state of AI. The Study
Panel reviews AI’s progress in the years following the immediately prior report,
envisions the potential advances that lie ahead, and describes the technical and
societal challenges and opportunities these advances raise, including in such arenas as
ethics, economics, and the design of systems compatible with human cognition. The
overarching purpose of the One Hundred Year Study’s periodic expert review is to
provide a collected and connected set of reflections about AI and its influences as the
field advances. The studies are expected to develop syntheses and assessments that
provide expert-informed guidance for directions in
AI research, development, and systems design, as well as programs and policies to
help ensure that these systems broadly benefit individuals and society.1
The One Hundred Year Study is modeled on an earlier effort informally known as
the “AAAI Asilomar Study.” During 2008-2009, the then president of the Association
for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), Eric Horvitz, assembled a
group of AI experts from multiple institutions and areas of the field, along with
scholars of cognitive science, philosophy, and law. Working in distributed subgroups,
the participants addressed near-term AI developments, long-term possibilities,
and legal and ethical concerns, and then came together in a three-day meeting at
Asilomar to share and discuss their findings. A short written report on the intensive
meeting discussions, amplified by the participants’ subsequent discussions with other
colleagues, generated widespread interest and debate in the field and beyond.
The impact of the Asilomar meeting, and important advances in AI that included
AI algorithms and technologies starting to enter daily life around the globe, spurred
the idea of a long-term recurring study of AI and its influence on people and society.
The One Hundred Year Study was subsequently endowed at a university to enable 
extended deep thought and cross-disciplinary scholarly investigations that could
inspire innovation and provide intelligent advice to government agencies and industry.
This report is the first in the planned series of studies that will continue for at least
a hundred years. The Standing Committee defined a Study Panel charge for the
inaugural Study Panel in the summer of 2015 and recruited Professor Peter Stone,
at the University of Texas at Austin, to chair the panel. The seventeen-member
Study Panel, comprised of experts in AI from academia, corporate laboratories
and industry, and AI-savvy scholars in law, political science, policy, and economics,
was launched in mid-fall 2015. The participants represent diverse specialties and
geographic regions, genders, and career stages.
The Standing Committee extensively discussed ways to frame the Study Panel
charge to consider both recent advances in AI and potential societal impacts on jobs,
the environment, transportation, public safety, healthcare, community engagement,
and government. The committee considered various ways to focus the study,
including surveying subfields and their status, examining a particular technology
such as machine learning or natural language processing, and studying particular
application areas such as healthcare or transportation. The committee ultimately
chose a thematic focus on “AI and Life in 2030” to recognize that AI’s various uses
and impacts will not occur independently of one another, or of a multitude of other
societal and technological developments. Acknowledging the central role cities have
played throughout most of human experience, the focus was narrowed to the large
urban areas where most people live. The Standing Committee further narrowed the
focus to a typical North American city in recognition of the great variability of urban
settings and cultures around the world, and limits on the first Study Panel’s efforts.
The Standing Committee expects that the projections, assessments, and proactive
guidance stemming from the study will have broader global relevance and is making
plans for future studies to expand the scope of the project internationally.
